but it's really my privilege to
introduce
all to all of you someone who needs no
introduction
uh which is jyoti bansal he's had an
incredible journey in enterprise
software
being the founder of not one but three
amazing
enterprise software companies app
dynamics which you know i'm sure all of
you have heard of
and is a category leader in application
performance monitoring
harness which is a new emerging
disruptor
in the cicd space and traceable which is
a new challenger company
uh in application and apr security
so you know there's a good reason why we
teasingly call him the elon musk of
enterprise software um and last but not
the least uh he's also the co-founder
of unusual ventures where um i'm super
honored to
be a partner uh and get to collaborate
with jyoti
um they are really really excited to be
here together
and hopefully you know we'll be able to
have a conversation that's very helpful
to everybody in this audience we'll be
going
through some questions but uh then we'll
you know also have time for q a
um and i'm going to keep a track uh for
you know who
i'm going to talk who asks the best
question or can make jyoti laugh that
can be that can be our
bar um all right so with that
here's this was kind of the biggest
question i asked jyoti the first time
that i met him
which is you know if you go back to 2017
um you know app dynamics was acquired by
cisco
jyoti finally has free time and a young
family and um you know is
a billionaire amazing amazing success
jyoti what motivated you to think about
starting another company and being a
founder again
yeah it's a you know it's a it's a good
question and
you know when app dynamics was acquired
in 2017 and it was a big acquisition and
everything
so the first instinct i had which
made sense was that i should now i don't
need any more money i have more money
than i could ever spend in my life you
know i've achieved
good amount of success you know it's uh
so i should retire and enjoy what i do
right so and uh so i went on a
retirement
for about uh you know six to eight
months and we you know we had a list of
things on our checklist that we wanted
to do like in a safari in africa
we wanted to go and trek in bhutan we
wanted to see machu picchu
seafoods in norway and all like this was
a list of things that like you know
when i was running app dynamics i could
never get to because i didn't have time
to do any of that right
so we went and do event to do all of
those but in about six to seven months
you're done
you know it's like uh you know my wife
and i and
um what now it's i can't be doing this
all my life like you know and i started
to look at like you know
uh like what you know at some point in
life you think of
uh you know if you don't have to worry
about money you don't have to worry
about your career success whatever it is
right
you should be doing what you enjoy so i
looked at okay what do i enjoy
and i realized that i really enjoyed the
journey of building a startup so you
know i'm i'm
at the core of it i'm a product guy i
love building great products
uh but then you know you can't build
just great products you have to combine
them
with building great teams and then that
builds a great business right
i enjoyed that you know the hustle of it
the competitive element of
it the building the team the competing
in the market all sort of things that
come with the startup
and i was like okay that's what i
enjoyed why should i do it again like
you know who cares what the outcome or
anything could be but that's what i
enjoy i will do it again
the second part is is is the problem
itself like what harness does and what
traceable does right because that's also
important like
i didn't seek out to i want to start a
second company so
now let me go and hunt for problem ideas
or you know ideas
these were problems i was very
passionate and excited about even when i
was at ap dynamics
so like the the the what harness does
about like you know i always thought it
was kind of uh
horrible that there are only like maybe
10 companies in the world who are very
good in software delivery
where like you know cicd software
delivery their shipping code very fast
and these are like your googles and
facebook and amazon's and netflix and
they had this massive advantage over
everyone else in the world
it was all struggling with devops ci cd
software delivery
and said someone got us all that like so
i wanted to solve that even before
you know um abdominis was acquired by
cisco
uh so to me that was a problem that was
exciting as well so it was that that
same applies to latest from the
traceable you know
you know how we should think about
securing every line of code in the world
you know we all look at like you know
all the the world runs on code so the
code has to be now it has to be secure
that's also a problem i wanted to
actually uh solve and i was passionate
about even when i was at
dynamics you know three four years ago
now so these are it's uh it's the
combination of
like this is what i enjoyed to do i
would want to do it
retirement is not really that fun after
a while
and uh you know these are problems that
you know excites me to solve and you
know
that's that's the genesis of it same
thing applies to unusual ventures as
well like an unusual
also stem from a problem i wanted to
really solve
you know which is like how do we rethink
early stage investing
and you know uh you know how do we make
it more
you know really useful for founders you
know when we do that right and i
experienced that and i wanted to solve
it so it's like you know if you want to
solve a problem that becomes
you know why not do it right right right
it's you know the
authenticity that you can't stop
thinking about the problem like you're
not starting something
just to start something it's because you
you know can't stop
thinking about this even while you are
in machu picchu right
and i think you know so many of us don't
appreciate that enough uh when when
you're thinking about like
what really motivates you i guess here's
a really important question
um did any of it get easier the second
time around like
one one really hopes that you know some
things got a lot easier what would you
say you know when you started working on
harness like
what you know what felt easy this time i
think you think some things do get
easier uh
you know the i think the most important
is fundraising and
uh dealing with investors you know when
when i started app dynamics this was
when i was
i was sort of an engineer turned
first-time entrepreneur first-time ceo
i never even managed a single person in
my life before that you know i was
in my late 20s and i had this idea for
you know what to do in ap dynamics and
raising capital was quite hard for me as
a you know at that time
uh and it just you know i pitched about
20 vcs you know
who rejected me before i got any funding
for abdomen
the harness doing it the second time was
exactly the opposite of it
like you know vcs didn't even know what
we were doing because you know we were
in stealth
and there were at least 20 people who
are willing to give us like offers and
term sheets and vc's just knocking
on the train and you know i bootstrapped
the company initially we didn't even
need any capital but there was still
like you know
the the the fundraising part of it was i
was so you know uh so different it was
kind of uh
almost funny to watch uh like you know
and uh
you know i live in san francisco when i
was doing app dynamics uh fundraising
you know almost all bc's used to be in
central road menlo park and every day i
would use to drive down and vpcs and
especially partnerships and all you know
for harness like uh
the firm we went with uh you know the
entire partnership came to our small
rework office in san francisco to
kind of pitch to us and you know take
their money so it's like that dynamic
changes
the second part that also becomes much
easier that kind of goes into that use
the second time you get a bit of luxury
to work with the investors and board
members that you know
you know you know are the right kind of
partners
and that completely changes how you you
know work with your investors involved
now to me one of the you know i would
say uh things from app dynamics was that
we had i spent a lot of time managing
our board and industries
like maybe about 20 to 30 of my time
would go in there we had you know
all sort of investors who uh needed just
a lot of management
uh doing it second time and harness it's
it's much easier i
i spend maybe one to two percent of my
time managing investors in the board
a part of it is also like you know it's
just a bit of a psychology in the
investor world like you know when i was
first time ceo
people were like his first time ceo and
people would doubt and question
all the things all the time you know you
have an exit and
the next day you know you start a
company your second time ceo now
and just psychologically now everyone
thinks you're an expert on everything
because now you're a second time ceo
so even though you are really the same
person but just like you know the
so that that does make things a bit bit
easier
on that front i would say um
yeah that's the you know the the
fundraising becomes easier managing the
board gets easier
i think the other thing that does get
easier is uh
you know what to expect you you know you
can see around the corners better
because you know it's
you've gone through the journey like you
know when you like i could see
six months ahead a year ahead based on
the prior experience
of building it the first time i have
dynamics and app dynamics everything was
new like i didn't know
what will happen a year later what will
happen two years later and
things don't exactly happen the same way
at harness now but still there's a lot
of similarity right so
you know you know like once you're gonna
hit uh you know your 100 customers
these are kind of the challenges that
will start to happen you know you know
like you know once you start getting
like you know expand your sales force
internationally these are the challenges
that will start to happen so you could
be prepared for those
you know you know also know like you
know these are the things that will
happen when like you know when you go
from one product to second product
these are the things you have to do on
the how you structure your engineering
these are the things you need to do when
you like you know
uh you know structure your sales
organization how do you launch a product
some some of the things that like you
know i i didn't know what
that you know what to expect first time
second time i know much better what to
expect so that makes
it much easier uh you know to plan
around and execute on
a bunch of these things right well what
was an example of something that
like was a surprise for you when you
were first building app dynamics like
where you were like oh i didn't see
this coming at all
uh or maybe you know i had vaguely heard
about it
but didn't realize that it would be so
such a big deal and you know
wish i knew this six months ago yeah
like you know when i was first doing app
dynamics almost everything was a
surprise to me because i didn't know
anything uh
like you know even like simple things
like okay how do you even interview a
sales rep
you know i have no idea like you know
what to ask you know a sales rep an
interview question and like you know how
do you
uh you know so those kind of things were
all you learned through it right you
know so those
almost everything was a surprise at
harness like you know
i do think like some things uh you know
uh
you know you know like these skills you
have learned like you know you know like
you know some of these things are not as
surprises
uh i i when i was building app dynamics
to me like you know
uh how to handle sales was definitely
i never thought it would be that hard or
that complicated figure it out what to
do
you know uh you know scaling the teams
and how do you like you know build the
right culture you know i was
you know i never thought of that like
you know uh at
dynamics until we kind of starting to
have to deal with it right you know that
uh but at harness i know like you know
you know you have to be
much more productive about building the
right culture very early on you know you
you know you uh so those kind of things
you
are not surprised anymore like i know
these i have to do because that's that
otherwise
you can't really just grow makes sense
all right so to recap a little bit
um you said that you know things that
got easier
fundraising you can you can you can get
vc's to pitch you
on why you should accept your term sheet
and offer
sounds great uh everyone should just
skip to being a second time founder and
just skip the
first time a bit managing your board
making sure
you work with people that you trust and
understand and you know don't need
managing
um and knowing what to expect i think i
think those are really
uh solid um challenges
that you know if they're easier like
feels like
you as a founder like your life is in a
much better place but what about like
you know
core company strategy like for example
you brought up that even your second
time founder people don't question your
decisions as much
because you have done this before like
even if you are the same person you're
thinking
like the same way about your company
strategy people kind of trust you that
you know and
is that part easier or you know like
what is it that
is equally hard i guess you know what is
equally hard is
is executing you know executing on a few
things like you know
and finding product market fit for
example like you know
when i was doing app dynamics you know
initially i had assumptions on
this is how our product should be this
is how the what the market needs
to be and turn out that half of those
assumptions are wrong
and we had to do multiple pivots in the
first 18 months
of app dynamics right and you have to
iterate and pivot and find the right
product market fit
and most startups have to go through
that so when i
at harness i i thought like you know
okay i'm doing it second time i don't
maybe i'll get all my assumptions right
the first time but that's really not the
case the finding that product market
fit is still the same iterative process
like you know we had to pivot at harness
as well we have to do like you know
some of the assumptions were wrong and
we have to pivot and correct course and
you know iterate through it and
go through almost exactly the same same
journey that we had
went at abdominals right so which is
like how do we hone into the right
product market fit and it was equally
hard it's a hard problem to solve
it was a hard problem solid app dynamics
because i have problem to solve hardness
and you know that that was one second is
the
i would say equally hard is uh is
recruiting
and that was a little bit of a surprise
to me actually because i thought like at
appdynamics
you know we spent a lot of time
recruiting and i
i strongly believe that to build a great
company you have to hire a lot of good
people
and kind of as as founders you have to
spend a lot of time personally trying to
recruit uh right
so in ap dynamics we hire a lot of
really great people and you know a lot
of those people like became like you
know people who started as engineers
become vps and
people started as sales reps and sales
directors they became like you know head
of sales and all like can people grew
with the company for those
you know five years eight years ten
years have been right uh so
i i thought initially like you know i
could just go and bring all those people
who i
knew who like really is rock stars and
kind of grew with app dynamics and
and i don't need to spend time on
recruiting but that turned out that's
not the case because you know
most of those people you know it's great
that they've been now
you know significantly uh you know grown
in their careers and where they are
in in their in their journeys in in work
right so for them to come into a very
early startup
you know many times doesn't make sense
like you know how would why would you
come to a very early startup you know
it's it's just it doesn't it's not the
right fit so i so
you know it took me some time to realize
that i need to actually go through the
same
cycle again that find these really
talented upcomers
you know very similar to what we did in
ap dynamics and kind of groom them and
have them grow with the company and then
they become the next generation of those
rock stars you know the way we had the
abdomen i couldn't just bring all of the
same people and you know i have to go
through the same journey again so that
was you know
i i think it's equally hard in the sense
that you have to
i had to put equal amount of effort you
know in uh that we didn't have dynamics
at harness as well right
right so i'm curious i'll
interrupt you a little bit because you
know how do you think about
identifying that like next you know
rising star right like if you can't just
like
maybe you know your old team wants to
spend more time in machu picchu than you
did now you need to like
find like the not that that person but
10 years ago
do you have like you know because i know
you have such cool frameworks for all
decision making like
how do you think about like yes this
person is like a founder level higher
and i'm catching
you know her or him early i i
i think the framework that i like to use
is like you know someone who is uh
uh you know first of all high intellect
uh you know they have to be uh high
intellect is important second is they
are very curious
they're curious and they want to learn
and they are fast learners and they're
curious about learning more and more
and third they're ambitious that they
want to do that like they have the
desire to
you know uh you know to grow under the
you know do bigger things like you know
if you if you you want to have like you
know
a person who's let's say you're hiring
as a sales rep that they are like you
know uh
they are high in intellect you know they
are they're they're curious and fast
learner but they're ambitious that they
want to become a vp of sales
at some point you know so now you know
like you know they have all the right
right ingredients at least right so you
know could they be coached and mentored
and kind of they could
get there over time you know they can so
that's how i would identify things but
it also goes through a process after
that like not everyone makes it like you
can't
not you know it's like if you hire five
of those people you think okay these are
high potential
not all five are going to get there like
you know so but so it almost also goes
through a
sort of a meritocracy process after that
like you know the
best people get promoted to the next
level and the next level in the next
level so you go through that cycle
you know so you know we uh we did that
very well at appdynamics and
i you know i initially thought i can
short-circuit that at hand
you know i you know it's actually a
great cycle because it allows so many
people to grow
with the company and you know so that's
you have to do that again
right right and and you you know talked
about how you had to learn a lot about
sales with app dynamics so how did how
did that go with harness and traceable
like any any shortcuts to hiring good
salespeople
and and hitting your quota every year or
every quarter
you know well there are two parts of
sales uh you know
in the initial years there's a lot of
hustle and there is always a bit of
hustle goes in sales but the initial
years is
there's much more hustle than you would
imagine right and actually i i
initially thought when like doing it
second time that they don't need to
hustle
as much you know but like when when it
was like the early days of web dynamics
like every deal doesn't matter it was
like thousand dollars two thousand five
thousand dollars like you know
whatever it takes you know will uh you
know if i have to be involved i will be
on the front line trying to close the
deal win the deal everything right
but as the company got mature at
dynamics you have a sales machine
like you know your entire machine that
you know you actually don't want it to
be hassle oriented you want it to be
more systematic because the hustle
doesn't scale at some point right
uh so you know so i got very used to
that machine
right you know so when i started harness
initially i thought okay we you know we
probably don't need the hustle because
machine is great like you know
but you realize in the first couple of
years the machine is you know it doesn't
really work you gotta still hustle a lot
and you know and that part you know you
can't really avoid it like you know so i
at harness like it's really the same
kind of things i have you know we had to
go through as well like you know if it's
a
doesn't matter if it's like you know to
find to win
how small a customer is you know how
small a deal is you have to do
everything to win
you have to you know prospect you know
your way in you have to like you know
beat competitors all of that sales
hustle you still require like you know
you really can't like you know whatever
it takes to
help your sales teams and your sales
reps to like just get one small
competitive advantage to win
so it becomes really really important in
the in the first couple of years right
so that that
still remains the same i think when it
comes to you know if you want a
repeatable sales
sales motion where like you never miss a
quarter that happens only when you build
a reputable sales machine
right and and every startup has to kind
of evolve into that like you know you
start with the hustle oriented sales
to like you know a little bit of hustle
and little bit of machine to like almost
a
complete machine oriented model at some
point right where like you know it's
everything is predictable repeatable all
of that and you go through that that
that that cycle uh yeah it you know i
have a little bit of an advantage doing
it the second time now
at harness and you know that and
traceable that you know like that is
coming
like you know right that we have to go
towards it at app dynamics i didn't know
it
initially i was like you know this
hustle thing is working so well why do
we even need to
think about building a machine until i
start running into problems with it
right so
just like you know we can start building
you know which we have done like
building up very predictable kind of
sales machine um you know a
bit earlier than most traffic would do
right yeah and you know
unusual like we definitely find that um
just building the sales machine and
getting the senior sales leader
higher right it's just so challenging
for founders especially
doing it the first time and you know
that's why we've built so much support
for
them like where we can like help them
pick that right person
and i remember i think this was like
maybe 2018.
i remember reading this amazing article
that you had published about
what you learned from app dynamics about
hiring sales leaders
especially at that pivot point of like
going from
having a sales leader who manages to
deals
to having a sales leader who manages to
sales capacity
and like running a machine that's
capacity based and the leader who thinks
about capacity as opposed to a leader
who thinks about individual deals
and you know it really felt like very
very good hard-won wisdom
that you can and the funny thing is you
can't really hire the
capacity leader early right because
that's not the person you need early
like you actually do need the person who
can get in there to close individual
deals
so yeah i think that was like just an
amazing way to
synthesize what we probably learned over
years of hiring
at adapti and um very useful
uh for founders yeah i think it's uh
uh you know some of the things that you
have to do in the very early stage like
you know getting from that idea to the
first the first million dollars of
revenue those things
you know i think people it's doesn't
matter how much experience you have they
remain equally hard and you just have to
do them like you know
the the you know manage the sales deals
and uh
yeah recruit the initial team and uh
you know go and get the right messaging
and you know as you know
at unusual that's a key part of our
focus and how do we help
founders in a very systematic way just
help not just giving them advice but can
we just go in the trenches and be the
extended sales force and be the extended
recruiting force and be the extended
marketing arm to do that
because that's really hard to do i think
at some point when you start hiring the
right you know that you can
attract the right leaders you know in
your company as vps
things get get easier like you know so
uh right that's that's always the but
the initials uh uh challenges and uh
you know uh you have to go through
there's no shortcut to it
makes sense all right so to quickly
recap
some of the things that you know you
said unfortunately continue to stay hard
finding product market fit recruiting
really really good
racing start talent because you know the
team from your first run
might not be the right fit to like join
you
on day zero again uh and the sales
hustle
right now can never stop hustling really
need to be
like super super hands on deck in the in
the early
phase of building your company uh which
resonates a lot
um and so you know we've talked a little
bit about what got easier what got
hard um what about surprises like what
was some what would what would you say
was you know
maybe like month two of harness
what was for you like oh i was really
not expecting this what just happened
uh yeah you know there are always some
surprises like you know i think
most of the surprises to me were more at
a personal level
like uh i think that number one is like
you know when i was
last at appdynamics uh you know we are
about thousand plus employees yeah
you know a few hundred million dollars
of revenue uh and you start operating at
a much higher level right you know
you're not into the day-to-day details
you are much more at a
strategic level right so you know you're
operating at 100 feet 2000 feet kind of
level
and when you start a company like the
harness the first few
uh you know uh you know say the first
few months
uh you have to go down to that you know
one feet level
and you know and start operating at that
again right
and that's a little bit of a you know i
kind of knew that
that's what you have to do but still it
was a surprise to me like you know that
that
uh adapt adapting to it and adjusting to
it
you know it takes it takes some time
like you have to deal with like really
small things on like you know do you
have uh
you know the you're hiring an engineer
uh you know to start
tomorrow and we have the you know uh
you know a desk for them right you know
it's uh and
something like that you will have to
like operate like you know because there
is really no one else you have to take
care of things and you know
kind of the job that happens in early
stage uh you know where
as founder you wear every hat you do
everything that whatever needs to be
taken like you know you have to be the
plumber for for that day you know
because office is flooding you gotta
still do it right
and that's that's still a bit of an
adjustment uh that was a little bit of a
surprise to me
that you know you've got to operate down
at the you know
at the one foot level i would say the
second surprise is also a bit of a
sort of a personal adjustment which is
uh the realization that there is really
no shortcut like you know if you have to
go through a journey like you know like
a
startup journey like in the b2b kind of
space like you know you start
you start with an idea it takes like you
know somewhere in the 12 to 18 months to
find your
initial product market fit you know your
initial set of customers and then you
start building a sales team and then you
go and
you know you go to a million dollars of
error and 10 billion dollars of ar and
25 million dollars of er and 50 million
and 100 million
but those are all you have to just go
through it and you there will be
challenges and
you know uh hiccups and you know big
obstacles sometimes to all of those
right there is no shortcut
and you're mentally used you know i had
to prepare myself i had to ask myself
actually especially in the first six
months a year
you know that am i pushing the org to go
too fast because i wanted to get
like you know because i was i was
running a much bigger company before
right so almost like you think
of you want to get there as soon as you
can but there are
there is no shortcut to get there you
have to go through the journey
and you know even if you go there very
fast and harness i would say is on track
to be
among the fastest uh companies to reach
many of those kind of revenue milestones
even in the
in the sas kind of world but still you
can't go any faster right so you you
know so i have to like stop myself on
like i can't
keep pushing my team to go any faster
it's like we can't this is no shortcut
you have to go through all of the grind
right
and that's like you know it was a bit of
a surprise that i need to go through
that kind of a
personal mental adjustment around that
makes sense um and do you uh
do you remember their like were there
like clear mistakes
that you had made adapt dynamics which
you're like yes definitely not doing
that again
i'm going to do things differently here
that worked out well
with harness yeah you know other than
the whole investor management thing
or not well industry management i
i would think is probably the biggest
one like you know it was a
you know it could become a drag
otherwise like so you know definitely
that's a mistake i wanted to avoid like
you know how we have the right uh pick
the right investors and how we manage
them so
i'm pretty happy with that uh but i
think if you look back at most companies
like if i look back at
dynamics you know successful outcome
everything um the mistakes
mostly come down to two categories right
you know either you make some kind of
strategy mistakes of like you know
you didn't go into a use case or a
product area or some hsn market or
something fast enough
and you let some competitors go there
faster or you
kind of didn't change or pivot you know
some product strategy somewhere
soon enough or something right that's
like the more of the you know
and a lot of them fall into the product
strategy go to market strategy you kind
of see made some wrong decisions
or you didn't correct your decision
trust fast enough the second category of
mistakes
almost always come into people right you
know that you didn't hire the right
person or you kind of like you know
didn't change a person soon enough or
you kind of like you know uh
so it's when i look back at app dynamics
like you know the mistakes come down
into two buckets like you know it's the
so you know at harness obviously like
you know
uh i try to avoid those mistakes you
know you still cannot get everything
hundred percent right like you know
it's just impossible like you know but
it's uh but we try you know i i look at
like can we reduce the mistakes and can
we
reduce the time to correct mistakes
right so it's it
really comes down to those two things
right so like you know we are just
you know uh uh you know a little bit
more conscious about
you know keep studying where the market
is evolving so that we are not
like that means like a few things we
missed out like you know when we
let's say uh you know how fast
everything moved to mobile apps for
example right so the mobile
apm we were at least a year behind at
market
at dynamics because we were you know uh
you know we were just not paying
attention enough to it right and then we
had to catch up and like build a good
mobile apm
uh you know for mobile apps a year later
we try to avoid those mistakes by like
you know having much more dedicated
focus on you know what are the things
where the market is going are we
constantly listening from our customers
are we you know and are we constantly
also listening to like what are the
other trends going so we can avoid some
of those kind of mistakes
people the same thing like you know it
allows us to you know
do slightly better but you know in
in reality it's impossible to not make
mistakes like you know
you have to move really slow you know
startups you're moving fast and you know
sometimes you just have to decide and
and and keep going right and you correct
from later if something goes wrong
so i i only look at like you know can i
reduce the rate of mistakes then
then we'll be we'll be fine right yeah i
think one thing um
that really stood out to me in what you
said is this idea of like when your
heads down building your company
sometimes you forget to look at what's
happening
outside the building you're so focused
on like what's going on inside the
building in your little world that you
don't even realize that there is a
bigger
opportunity or like a market shift
happening
outside that world that you would
actually be perfectly positioned for
um so it's important to make sure there
are people who can
you know nudge you when they see that
happening and you know people who can
make sure that you don't
miss it so really really good advice um
well so you know you said that harness
is growing really fast you guys recently
got
you know valued at 1.7 billion dollars
officially becoming a
unicorn um how does it feel is there you
know is the
is the sense of achievement the same for
you
and the team how does it feel the second
time around
you know it's a it's it's a good
question i think uh you know when app
dynamics
achieved the billion dollar unicorn mark
this was 20 14
15 around that time six seven years ago
uh
it felt like you know being a unicorn
was like sort of the pinnacle of
success for uh to be kind of startup uh
you know and so we've achieved a big
part of our journey when we became
unicorn that's what it feels like you
know that we have achieved a big we have
done
big part of our journey now the seven
years later the world has shifted in
very good ways as in the sense that
uh the opportunity and the market need
for like you know products in the the
say call the developer tools
devops ecosystem to like you know most
of the business applications sas
has become much bigger so the
addressable market is significantly
bigger than what it used to be
you know so you know getting to say 100
million error and like you know you
become a unicorn that was like you know
that was a big deal now i think the
market opportunities are bigger
uh so like you know when we at harness
when we hit a billion dollar
valuation as a unicorn it feels like the
journey is just starting
so it's it still doesn't feel like we
have accomplished a big part of our
journey
you know which was kind of a bit
different at the you know at the time of
the dynamic so that's that is the
difference so you know it's
there's a you know obviously you know to
our team you know to
you know to everyone's credit it's still
very hard to build a you know
a you know a billion dollar unicorn
company right but
i think at unicorn these days compared
to seven years ago
you know you have so much more potential
to uh you know to do
and so that's a little bit of the the
you know in some sense it's a great part
that there's
there's a lot more opportunity uh the
bad part is it comes with that that
expectation like you know what i call it
like you know
the deca corn is the new unicorn now
like you know what
right billion dollar was a special part
and now it's like you know
you know it's you gotta beat 10 billion
dollar to be
really special in the company these days
yeah
like getting that top percentile given
you know i think the
market has accelerated so much in its
growth
um yeah i it's it's funny i think one of
the things that
uh drives a lot of us as you know
founders and
uh folks in the software industry is we
we always want to be at the top of the
game and you know this is the new top of
the game
um so it's uh it's it's a it's a great
um question to ask yourself which is you
know what level are you operating at and
like what is it that you are going to
celebrate
um right well so shifting focus a little
bit i wanted to uh you know talk a
little bit more about
hardness and you know one thing that
actually stood out to me
is that if i think about the these two
companies there are a lot of fundamental
differences in how they are positioned
like app dynamics was
an early entrant in the in the
application performance monitoring space
and and you guys built an amazing
enterprise
top down sales engine i still hear
you know people who talk about like that
five minute demo
that you could like walk into the or
into the company and do
and i'll remember telling someone oh
like yeah which product marketer came up
with this and they would say yeah his
name was jyoti
so so kudos to that but then honest
feels like it's in a different
environment like you're disrupting a
very big existing
category um as opposed to like being the
early like
category define or you're a disruptor um
and the go to market motion might also
be different so we'd love to hear more
about that like how would you contrast
like the positioning
and go to market strategy for these yeah
uh
you know the the one similarity is that
you know both
dynamics and hardness are in the broader
developer
tools devops ecosystem kind of space
right
but the big difference is as you you
know number one as you as you outlined
is the uh at appdynamics you know uh
we were really defining that market you
know you know dynamics and a few
companies of what application
performance monitoring api market would
be it was still very early and being
defined
and harness you know people are doing ci
cd today people are doing devops today
uh so and so we are going and
going to the market and creating
something that is like significantly
disruptive and much better
way of doing it the the interesting
thing is like you know the the our
competition about 90 percent of the time
is people building it themselves right
so we
are you know so it's because they were
not really good products to do this so
most of the time people are doing it
like you know uh using some some
solutions and then kind of doing it on
top of it themselves putting a lot of
work up and effort
so we have to we have to design our
product like you know the bar becomes
much higher when you are
going into a new market you know you
even your v1 bar
doesn't have to be that high because you
know something is better than nothing
but when you're going in an existing
market where most people have a way to
solve the problem already in some ways
like either humble
or commercial or whatever it is right
your bar for your v1 is that you have to
be at least 5x10x better than the
existing approaches so that becomes uh
your first major difference compared to
you know
when you just look at the product
strategy and what the product market fit
would be
uh because the it's it's a much
different bar uh due to start just as a
starting bottom
the second thing is the the go to market
model you know
it it has it is significantly different
than abdomen versus hardness for two
reasons one is i think over the last
seven eight years especially in the
developer tools kind of space
much more uh power and influence have
shifted to the
practitioner to the developer level like
in ap dynamics you know we were very
well known as a very
you know really really world-class
top-down enterprise sales motion right
but so what we would do there is we
would go to the you know the senior
level execs you know
vps and c levels and we'll make the case
on
you know we had a process called you
know a business value assessment like
you know what is the
how do you do things today you know what
could be the new way of doing things
with app dynamics and what is the
business value you get
and will convince them and they will do
a trial and proof of concept and then
you
go and sell to them that doesn't work
anymore because if you just go to
go to the someone who's a decision maker
and unless you have got buy-in and
already ground-up adoption from
developers and the practitioners
no decision maker wants to give a tool
or a product to their teams to go and
use it like you know everyone
so it because they may they are all
scared like would they get attached
adoption would it work or not right
so you almost have to create this new
go-to-market model you know that you
know
what i call the you know sometimes you
call it the pinstrip strategy or like
you know the you know
you know sometimes you call it the
sandwich model that you go from the
bottom and you go from the top
then you have to go from the bottom to
the practitioner themselves so that
there's a very easy
premium trial experience open source
kind of models that you can go to them
and these people are
using your product and happy and uh you
know um
and you still have to build the sort of
the decision maker down the
the top down uh sales motion so that you
can monetize it and still create the
business value framework and uh
but but but you already have a lot of
the risk removed around adoption
because your users and developers are
already using it so it's it's definitely
a different kind of go to market
strategy than what we did at
app dynamics you know it's uh and to do
that we also look at like you know we
have to make sure that we are not
focused completely on large enterprise
that we have a very healthy mix of smb
mid market
and large enterprise so we are the smp
market keeps you honest in terms of like
you know how easy
and simple your product would be like
you know how fast of a sales process you
can do can you go to the the developers
and practitioners themselves
uh so at honest we do it differently
that you know we look at like you know
forty percent of our business comes from
smb mid market and sixty percent comes
from large enterprise you know
at app dynamics it was ninety five
percent coming from large enterprise and
you know very small part will come from
from assembly mid market so
it would develop deliberately uh change
the go to market strategy so we can kind
of address how
the buying patterns today in the in the
world of developer tools and and devops
are
right that makes a lot of sense is it so
given those differences like what were
some of the implications in terms of
like
you know when you were hiring the team
did you look for a different
type of profile for your product team
for your
sales team maybe marketing like what
were the implications on hiring given
that the market dynamics and the
go-to-market strategy was a little
different
i think it's a good question the hiring
becomes you know you have to hire the
right people who
have that mindset like you know so we at
honest we don't want to hire
people who only knew or cared about
top-down enterprise sales right we also
wanted to bring a healthy mix of people
who understood the
sort of the bottom-up uh you know
community driven
uh you know sales and marketing as well
right and then you try to bring a
healthy mix of that
same thing from a product design
perspective right you know and from
product design you
you know you want to make sure that you
have people who understand
the like you know the product led motion
and you know you
you can design the product you know
around that uh in addition
to like you know people who understand
like you know what do large enterprises
need to succeed right so we look at like
you know
and sometimes you may not find the same
person who understands both like you
know
but you have to hire the people who at
least have the you know
you know so you can come you can
complete the set of experiences in your
team
right actually take a question from our
audience which is
very very uh apt right now just you know
how do you what are like the signals or
signs that tell you okay you are ready
to go from
hustling for every deal to like having
to build sales machinery like what is
that tipping point what do you look for
and you say okay we are ready
we're ready to get started on the
machine uh
well i i think uh the biggest is like
where you are in terms of your revenue
is uh you know i think the the
getting to the first million of revenue
i would say is about
80 hustle and uh and maybe 20
machine and process in there getting
from a you know let's say a million to
10 million dollars of revenue
will be about maybe you know uh
60 hustle and 40 machine when you start
getting from 10 million to 25 million
dollars of of
of ar let's say then it starts to shift
like you know it starts shifting from
like you know it's 70
machine and 30 hustle and when you start
getting from like 25 million
plus it becomes 90 machine right
so there is almost like a like the scale
that comes with it like you know that
because initially you don't even you
can't
make a machine out of something until
you don't even know what to what the
formula is
so initially you have in that process to
find the formula the zero to one million
you're still finding the product market
fit formula you don't even know how to
articulate your product
the value prop of your product or the
what the use case is your products all
so you're
experimenting and finding so you can't
make a machine out of something that
you're constantly experimenting
in the one to ten million dollars of
phase you're also experimenting your
sales market strategy you go to market
strategy i call it like you know
so your zero to one is a product market
fit phase and you know one to ten
billion dollars is product market sales
fit phase like and how do you sell it
like you know and you're still trying to
figure out enterprise smb
you know uh you know bottom-up top-down
assembly
all sort of things you're figuring out
right so in that one also you want to
start building a machine but not too
much
because you're still experimenting but
after 10 million you start switching
gears to like list now you know most of
things you start building machine
after 25 million you should because you
need to press the gas at that point and
kind of grow fast right so you
really want to make it much and much
more and more repeatable and
and during all of those phases you know
if you don't have the right people who
can transition
from that you know 90 hustle to 90
machine then you may have to change
people as well right you know uh
during the process awesome so that was
uh you know a lot of really really good
advice
for our founders i think a lot of it
applicable
even to first-time founders but you know
one of the questions
that maybe we can wrap up with is you
know thinking back to your first-time
founder days like
what would be what would be advice that
you give them
you know people who are just starting
out on the journey
um who are you know just like thinking
about starting or have just started
building something what would what would
be your
advice to a younger version of yourself
i think that the number one advice i
give to everyone is like you know
uh don't get frustrated startups are
hard and
there is no straight smooth line like
you know when people look at like you
know successful com
startups and they they sometimes think
you know
but these guys had it so smooth like you
know why am i struggling with this or
why am i having this thing and i tell
them like
everyone has the struggles like you know
i'm now a two times unicorn founder but
i have struggled and you know all the
challenges at every step and you just
have to go through it and
don't get frustrated about that that's
the normal part of building a startup so
that's
you know first time entrepreneur founder
that's like you know don't get
frustrated
the second thing i advise like i would
give to folks is like you know
try to keep things simple you know don't
over complicate it like you know i i
call it like you know my
five point simple formula of building a
company and
my five point simple formula is starts
with like you know
make sure your addressable market is
large because or you are making it
larger constantly
because if you are if you are operating
in a small addressable market
it doesn't matter how hard you work and
whatever you do you're kind of
constrained by it so an addressable
market sometimes people think that they
can't control it
i strongly believe that you define your
addressable market by expanding the use
cases that you can address etcetera
right so
you have to constantly work on making
sure your addressable market is getting
bigger and bigger and bigger and bigger
so that's one part of the first part of
the formula second is
i you know my my formula would be like
build build a good product like you know
the if you build the product that is in
the top three
you know ideally top one top two top
three like in in your space whatever
problem you're solving
everything becomes so much easier so
like if you put a lot of energy and
focus in doing that
third to me is sales sales sales like
you know don't ignore sales and don't
underestimate sales and build the sales
you know from the hustle to the sales
machine and like invest
time and energy in learning about sales
and getting good at it and
working and helping your sales teams etc
right founders and entrepreneurs i was a
product founder entrepreneur first time
i was doing it i was
you know initially i wasn't like you
know why should i care about sales and
that's you know but it took me some time
to learn it but that's to me is like an
important part of the formula of
you as a company you have to become very
good at it fourth is
customers customers customers like just
take care of your customers you know and
not just lip service to it like you know
every customer matters you know you do
whatever it takes to make your customers
happy and successful and you make them
happy and successful
and find a way to do that and fifth part
of my formula is
is culture like don't don't
underestimate you know
the importance of culture you got to
build the right culture you would have
to deliberate about it as the founder
and you know you have to make sure
you're setting the right tone for the
culture
if you screw up the culture eventually
everything will fall apart so
i look at like you know my simple things
i only look at these five things like
you know are these five things happening
and
you know when i run harness or i run
traceable like are we on track on these
five things
and if it's just a simple framework and
i don't need to worry about much more
and then kind of things start to start
to happen
awesome well thank you so much everyone
for joining us and thank you so much
jyoti for your time
so it's a really amazing session so many
polls of wisdom
uh you you sometimes you make it sound
so easy you know
like five point framework for building a
company but
each of those five points are there's so
much thought
and learning behind it and i think
that's uh
the fact that um you are able to
simplify it and articulate it like that
for us it's super helpful
um i know a lot of this content will be
available on youtube
and you know we are all on twitter if
you guys wanna
ask us more questions like uh happy to
uh keep going
uh later but for now um this will be the
end of our session
so thank you everyone for joining us
thank you everyone thank you everyone